= Goruby

GoRuby is a library to interact with the Gene Ontology by using the infrastructure setup in R. By connecting to R using RSRuby, the database interrogated and the surrounding R code can be leveraged. Plus, keeping the R library up to date is much simpler than having to trying to keep or store some other kind of data.

== Installation

First install RSRuby. For me it was like this, but there's more info at https://github.com/alexgutteridge/rsruby

    $ gem install rsruby -- --with-R-dir=/usr/lib/R/ --with-R-include=/usr/share/R/include/

Then installing goruby, which should be comparatively simple:

    $ gem install goruby

Make sure that the Bioconductor package GO.db is available. In R:

    > library(GO.db)

If not, you can install like this in R:

    > source("http://bioconductor.org/biocLite.R")
    > biocLite("GO.db")

== Usage

To extract a list of GO terms that have "melanosome" (GO:0042470) as an ancestor:

    go.go_offspring('GO:0042470')  #=> ["GO:0033162", "GO:0034493"]

And to convert those offspring into human-readable names

    go.go_offspring('GO:0042470').collect{|offspring| go.term(offspring)} #=> ["melanosome membrane", "melanosome lumen"]

More methods are documented in the rdoc at http://rubydoc.info/gems/goruby particularly in the Bio::Go class. Also, be sure to have fun.

== Citation

Drug target prediction and prioritization: using orthology to predict essentiality in parasite genomes.
Maria A Doyle, Robin B Gasser, Ben J Woodcroft, Ross S Hall and Stuart A Ralph
BMC Genomics. 2010 Apr 3;11:222.

http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2164/11/222

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Ben J Woodcroft. See LICENSE for details.
